R
E
T
P
A
H Structural Organisation
2
C
in Animals
6. Goblet cells of alimentary canal are modified from: (2020)
Epithelial & Connective Tissue
a. Columnar epithelial cells
b. Chondrocytes
1. Which of the following is present between the adjacent bones c. Compound epithelial cells
of the vertebral column? (2022) d. Squamous epithelial cells
a. Smooth muscle b. Intercalated discs
7. The ciliated epithelial cells are required to move particles
c. Cartilage d. Areolar tissue or mucus in a specific direction. In humans, these cells are
2. Which of the following is not a connective tissue? (2022) mainly present in (2019)
a. Bile duct and bronchioles
a. Neuroglia b. Blood
b. Fallopian tubes and pancreatic duct
c. Adipose tissue d. Cartilage
c. Eustachian tube and salivary duct
3. Match List-I with List-II. (2022)
d. Bronchioles and fallopian tubes
List-I List-II 8. The function of the gap junction is to: (2015 Re)
(A) Bronchioles (i) Dense Regular Connective a. Facilitate communication between adjoining cells by
Tissue connecting the cytoplasm for rapid transfer of ions, small
molecules and some large molecules
(B) Goblet cell (ii) Loose Connective Tissue
b. Separate two cells from each other
(C) Tendons (iii) Glandular Tissue c. Stop substance from leaking across a tissue
d. Performing cementing to keep neighboring cells
(D) Adipose Tissue (iv) Ciliated Epithelium
together.
Choose the correct answer from the options given below. 9. Choose the correctly matched pair: (2014)
a. Cartilage - Loose connective tissue
a. A-iii B-iv C-ii D-i
b. Tendon - Specialised connective tissue
b. A-iv B-iii C-i D-ii
c. Adipose tissue - Dense connective tissue
c. A-i B-ii C-iii D-iv d. Areolar tissue - Loose connective tissue
d. A-ii B-i C-iv D-iii 10. Choose the correctly matched pair: (2014)
4. Identify the types of cell junctions that help to stop the a. Inner surface of bronchioles - Squamous epithelium
leakage of the substances across a tissue and facilitation of b. Inner lining of salivary ducts - Ciliated epithelium
communication with neighbouring cells via rapid transfer of c. Moist surface of Buccal cavity - Glandular epithelium
ions and molecules. (2021) d. Tubular parts of nephrons - Cuboidal epithelium
a. Tight junctions and Gap junctions, respectively.
b. Adhering junctions and Tight junctions, respectively. Muscle Tissue & Neural Tissue
c. Adhering junctions and Gap junctions, respectively.
d. Gap junctions and Adhering junctions, respectively.
11. Which of the following statements wrongly represents the
5. Cuboidal epithelium with brush border of microvilli is found nature of smooth muscle? (2021)
in: (2020) a. They are involuntary muscles
a. Ducts of salivary glands b. Communication among the cells is performed by
b. Proximal convoluted tubule of nephron intercalated discs
c. Eustachian tube c. These muscles are present in the wall of blood vessels
d. Lining of intestine d. These muscle have no striations
2 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
12. Select the incorrectly matched pair from following: 19. If the head of cockroach is removed, it may live for few days
(2020-Covid) because: [RC] (2020)
a. Neurons - Nerve cells a. The cockroach does not have nervous system.
b. Fibroblast - Areolar tissue b. The head holds a small proportion of a nervous system
c. Osteocytes - Bone cells while the rest is situated along the ventral part of its body.
d. Chondrocytes - Smooth muscle cells c. The head holds a 1/3rd of a nervous system while the rest
is situated along the dorsal part of its body.
13. Smooth muscles are: (2016 - II)
d. The supra-oesophageal ganglia of the cockroach are
a. Involuntary, cylindrical, striated
situated in ventral part of abdomen.
b. Voluntary, spindle–shaped, uninucleate
c. Involuntary, fusiform, non-striated 20. In cockroach, identify the parts of the foregut in correct
d. Voluntary, multinucleate, cylindrical sequence: [RC] (2020-Covid)
14. Which type of tissue correctly matches with its location? a. Mouth → Crop → Pharynx → Oesophagus → Gizzard
[OS] (2016 - I) b. Mouth → Gizzard → Crop → Pharynx → Oesophagus
Tissue Location c. Mouth → Pharynx → Oesophagus → Crop → Gizzard
a. Smooth muscle Wall of intestine d. Mouth → Oesophagus → Pharynx → Crop → Gizzard
b. Areolar tissue Tendons 21. Match the following columns with reference to cockroach
and select the correct option: (2020-Covid)
c. Transitional epithelium Tip of nose
d. Cuboidal epithelium Lining of stomach Column-I Column-II
15. Which of the following is not a function of the skeletal 1. Grinding of the food particles (i) Hepatic caecal
system? (2015 Re) 2. Secrete gastric juice (ii) 10th segment
a. Storage of minerals b. Production of body heat
3. 10 pairs (iii) Proventriculus
c. Locomotion d. Production of erythrocytes
4. Anal cerci (iv) Spiracles
(v) Alary muscles
Earthworm
(A) (B) (C) (D)
16. Following are the statements about prostomium of earthworm. a. (iv) (iii) (v) (ii)
A. It serves as a covering for mouth. b. (i) (iv) (iii) (ii)
B. It helps to open cracks in the soil into which it can crawl.
c. (ii) (iii) (i) (iv)
C. It is one of the sensory structures.
D. It is the first body segment. d. (iii) (i) (iv) (ii)
Choose the correct answer from the options given below. 22. Select the correct sequence of organs in the alimentary canal
[RC] (2021) of cockroach starting from mouth (2019)
a. A, B and D are correct b. A, B, C and D are correct a. Pharynx → Oesophagus → Crop → Gizzard → Ileum →
c. B and C are correct d. A, B and C are correct Colon → Rectum
b. Pharynx → Oesophagus → Gizzard → Crop → Ileum →
Colon → Rectum
Cockroach
c. Pharynx → Oesophagus → Gizzard → Ileum → Crop →
Colon → Rectum
17. Tegmina in cockroach, arises from [RC] (2022) d. Pharynx → Oesophagus → Ileum → Crop → Gizzard →
Colon → Rectum
a. Prothorax and Mesothorax
23. Which of the following features is used to identify a male
b. Prothorax
cockroach from a female cockroach? [RC] (2018)
c. Mesothorax
a. Presence of a boat shaped sternum on the 9th abdominal
d. Metathorax
segment
18. Which of the following characteristics is incorrect with b. Presence of caudal styles
respect to cockroach? [RC] (2021) c. Forewings with darker tegmina
a. Hypopharynx lies within the cavity enclosed by the mouth d. Presence of anal cerci
parts. 24. In male cockroaches, sperms are stored in which part of the
b. In females, 7th - 9th sterna together form a genital pouch. reproductive system? [RC] (2016 - II)
c. 10th abdominal segment in both sexes, bears a pair of anal a. Testes
cerci. b. Vas deferens
d. A ring of gastric caeca is present at the junction of midgut c. Seminal vesicles
and hind gut. d. Mushroom glands
Structural Organisation in Animals 3
25. Which of the following features is not present in Periplaneta
Frog
americana? [RC] (2016 - I)
a. Schizocoelom as body cavity
b. Indeterminate and radial cleavage during embryonic
30. Select the correct route for the passage of sperms in male
development
c. Exoskeleton composed of N-acetyl glucosamine frogs: (2017-Delhi)
d. Metamerically segmented body
a. Testes → Bidder’s canal → Kidney → Vasa efferentia →
26. The terga, sterna and pleura of cockroach body are joined
Urinogenital duct → Cloaca
by: [RC] (2015)
a. Arthrodial membrane b. Cartilage b. Testes → Vasa efferentia → Kidney → Seminal Vesicle
c. Cementing glue d. Muscular tissue
→ Urinogenital duct → Cloaca
27. The body cells in cockroach discharge their nitrogenous
waste in the haemolymph mainly in the form of: c. Testes → Vasa efferentia → Bidder’s canal → Ureter →
[RC] (2015 Re)
Cloaca
a. Potassium urate b. Urea
d. Testes → Vasa efferentia → Kidney → Bidder’s canal →
c. Calcium carbonate d. Ammonia
28. Select the correct option with respect to cockroaches: Urinogenital duct → Cloaca
[RC] (2013)
31. Frog’s heart when taken out of the body continues to beat
a. Malpighian tubules convert nitrogenous wastes into urea
for some time (2017-Delhi)
b. Males bear short anal styles not present in females
c. Nervous system comprises of a dorsal nerve cord and ten Select the best option from the following statements
pairs of ganglia
A. Frog is a poikilotherm
d. The forewings are tegmina which are used in flight
B. Frog does not have any coronary circulation
29. What external changes are visible after the last moult of a
cockroach nymph? [RC] (2013) C. Heart is “myogenic” in nature
a. Labium develops
D. Heart is autoexcitable
b. Mandibles become harder
a. Only (A) b. Only (D)
c. Anal cerci develop
d. Both fore wings and hind wings develop c. (A) & (B) d. (C) & (D)
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
c a b a b a d a d d b d c a b d c
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
d b c d a b c b a a b d d d