R
E
T
P
A
H
3
C The Living World
5. Match Column–I with Column–II for housefly classification
Diversity in the Living World
and select the correct option using the codes given below:
(2016-II)
1. Select the correctly written scientific name of Mango which
Column-I Column-II
was first described by Carolus Linnaeus. (2019)
A. Family (i) Diptera
a. Mangifera indica Car. Linn.
B. Order (ii) Arthropoda
b. Mangifera indica Linn.
C. Class (iii) Muscidae
c. Mangifera indica
D. Phylum (iv) Insecta
d. Mangifera Indica
Codes:
2. Study the four statements (A–D) given below and select the
two correct ones out of them: (2016-II) a. A-iv B-iii C-ii D-i
A. Definition of biological species was given by Ernst Mayr. b. A-iv B-ii C-i D-iii
B. Photoperiod does not affect reproduction in plants. c. A-iii B-i C-iv D-ii
C. Binomial nomenclature system was given by R.H.
d. A-iii B-ii C-iv D-i
Whittaker.
D. In unicellular organisms, reproduction is synonymous
with growth. Taxonomical Aids
The two correct statements are
a. A and D 6. Match the items given in Column-I with those in Column-II
b. A and B and select the correct option given below [RC] (2018)
c. B and C
Column – I Column – II
d. C and D
A. Herbarium (i) It is a place having a collection of
preserved plants and animals.
Taxonomic Categories
B. Key (ii) A list that enumerates
methodically all the species found
in an area with brief description
3. In the taxonomic categories which hierarchial arrangement in aiding identification
ascending order is correct in case of animals? (2022)
C. Museum (iii) Is a place where dried and pressed
a. Kingdom, Order, Phylum, Class, Family, Genus, Species plant specimens mounted on sheets
are kept.
b. Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, Species
c. Kingdom, Class, Phylum, Family, Order, Genus, Species D. Catalogue (iv) A booklet containing a list of
characters and their alternates
d. Kingdom, Order, Class, Phylum, Family, Genus, Species
which are helpful in identification
4. Which one of the following belongs to the family Muscidae?
of various taxa.
(2021)
a. A-i B-iv C-iii D-ii
a. Grasshopper
b. A-iii B-ii C-i D-iv
b. Cockroach
c. A-ii B-iv C-iii D-i
c. Housefly
d. Fire fly d. A-iii B-iv C-i D-ii
2 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
7. The label of a herbarium sheet does not carry information on: 8. Which one of the following is not a correct statement?
[RC] (2016-II) [RC] (2013)
a. Key is a taxonomic aid for identification of specimens.
a. Local names b. Herbarium houses dried, pressed and preserved plant
specimens.
b. Height of the plant
c. Botanical gardens have collection of living plants for
c. Date of collection reference.
d. A museum has collection of photographs of plants and
d. Name of collector animals.
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
b a None c c d b d