R
E
T
P
A
H
7
C Locomotion and Movement
6. The H-Zone in the skeletal muscle fibre is due to: (2013)
Types of Movement and Muscle
a. Extension of myosin filaments in the central portion of
the A-band
1. During muscular contraction which of the following events b. The absence of myofibrils in the central portion of A-band
occur?
c. The central gap between myosin filaments in the A-band
A.‘H’ zone disappears
d. The central gap between actin filaments extending through
B. ‘A’ band widens
myosin filaments in the A-band
C. ‘I’ band reduces in width
D. Myosine hydrolyzes ATP, releasing the ADP and Pi
Skeletal System
E.Z-lines attached to actins are pulled inwards
Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
7. Match List-I with List-II.
(2021)
a. A, B, C, D only b. B, C, D, E only List-I List-II
c. B, D, E, A only d. A, C, D, E only A. Scapula i. Cartilaginous joints
2. Calcium is important in skeletal muscle contraction because
B. Cranium ii. Flat bone
it: (2018)
a. Binds to troponin to remove the masking of active sites C. Sternum iii. Fibrous joints
on actin for myosin.
D. Vertebral column iv. Triangular flat bone
b. Activates the myosin ATPase by binding to it.
c. Detaches the myosin head from the actin filament. Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
d. Prevents the formation of bonds between the myosin cross (2021)
bridges and the actin filament. a. A-ii B-iii C-iv D-i
3. Name the ion responsible for unmasking of active sites for b. A-iv B-ii C-iii D-i
myosin for cross–bridge activity during muscle contraction:
c. A-iv B-iii C-ii D-i
(2016-II)
d. A-i B-iii C-ii D-iv
a. Sodium b. Potassium
c. Calcium d. Magnesium 8. Match the following columns and select the correct option.
(2020)
4. Sliding filament theory can be best explained as: (2015)
a. Actin and myosin filaments do not shorten but rather slide
Column-I Column-II
pass each other
1. Floating ribs i. Located between second and seventh ribs
b. When myofilaments slide pass each other, myosin
filaments shorten while actin filaments do not shorten 2. Acromion ii. Head of the humerus
c. When myofilaments slide pass each other, actin filaments
shorten while myosin filament do not shorten 3. Scapula iii. Clavicle
d. Actin and myosin filaments shorten and slide pass each
4. Glenoid cavity iv. Do not connect with the sternum
other
5. Stimulation of a muscle fibre by a motor neuron occurs at: (1) (2) (3) (4)
(2014)
a. (i) (iii) (ii) (iv)
a. The sacroplasmic reticulum
b. (iii) (ii) (iv) (i)
b. The neuromuscular junction
c. (iv) (iii) (i) (ii)
c. The transverse tubules
d. The myofibril d. (ii) (iv) (i) (iii)
2 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
9. Select the correct option. (2019) 15. Which of the following muscular disorder is inherited?
a. 8th, 9th and 10th pairs of ribs articulate directly with the (2019)
sternum.
a. Tetany b. Muscular dystrophy
b. 11th and 12th pairs of ribs are connected to the sternum
c. Myasthenia gravis d. Botulism
with the help of hyaline cartilage.
c. Each rib is a flat thin bone and all the ribs are connected 16. Osteoporosis, an age–related disease of skeletal system, may
dorsally to the thoracic vertebrae and ventrally to the occur due to: (2016 - II)
sternum.
a. Decreased level of estrogen
d. There are seven pairs of vertebrosternal, three pairs of
b. Accumulation of uric acid leading to inflammation of joints.
vertebrochondral and two pairs of vertebral ribs.
10. Out of ‘X’ pairs of ribs in humans only ‘Y’ pairs are true c. Immune disorder affecting neuromuscular junction
ribs. Select the option that correctly represents values of X leading to fatigue.
and Y and provides their explanation: (2017-Delhi)
d. High concentration of Ca++ and Na+.
a. X = 12, Y = 7 True ribs are attached dorsally to vertebral
17. Lack of relaxation between successive stimuli in sustained
column and ventrally to the sternum
muscle contraction is known as: (2016-I)
b. X = 12, Y = 5 True ribs are attached dorsally to vertebral
column and sternum on the two ends a. Spasm b. Fatigue
c. X = 24, Y = 7 True ribs are dorsally attached to vertebral
c. Tetanus d. Tonus
column but are free on ventral side
d. X = 24, Y = 12 True ribs are dorsally attached to vertebral 18. Which of the following joints would allow no movement?
column but are free on ventral side (2015 Re)
11. Glenoid cavity articulates: (2015) a. Cartilaginous joint b. Synovial joint
a. Clavicle with scapula b. Humerus with scapula
c. Ball and Socket joint d. Fibrous joint
c. Clavicle with acromion d. Scapula with acromion
19. Select the correct matching of the type of the joint with the
example in human skeletal system: (2014)
Joints
Type of joint Example
12. The pivot joint between atlas and axis is a type of a. Gliding joint Between carpals
(2017-Delhi)
b. Cartilaginous joint Between frontal and parietal
a. Fibrous joint b. Cartilaginous joint
c. Synovial joint d. Saddle joint c. Pivot joint Between third and fourth cervical
vertebrae
d. Hinge joint Between humerus and pectoral
Disorders of Muscular and girdle
Skeletal System 20. The characteristics and an example of a synovial joint in
humans is: (2013)
13. Chronic auto immune disorder affecting neuromuscular Characteristics Examples
junction leading to fatigue, weakening and paralysis of
a. Lymph filled between two bones, Gliding joint
skeletal muscle is called as: (2021)
limited movement between carpals
a. Muscular dystrophy b. Myasthenia gravis
b. Fluid cartilage between two Knee joints
c. Gout d. Arthritis
bones, limited movements
14. Match the following columns and select the correct option:
c. Fluid filled between two joints, Skull bones
(2020-Covid)
provides cushion
Column-I Column-II
d. Fluid filled synovial cavity Joint between atlas
1. Gout i. Decreased levels of estrogen
between two bones and axis
2. Osteoporosis ii. Low Ca++ ions in the blood
21. Select the correct statement with respect to locomotion in
3. Tetany iii. Accumulation of uric acid crystals
humans: (2013)
4. Muscular dystrophy iv. Auto immune disorder
a. The joint between adjacent vertebrae is a fibrous joint
v. Genetic disorder
b. A decreased level of progesterone causes osteoporosis in
(1) (2) (3) (4)
old people
a. (iii) (i) (ii) (v)
b. (iv) (v) (i) (ii) c. Accumulation of uric acid crystals in joints causes their
c. (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) inflammation
d. (ii) (i) (iii) (iv) d. The vertebral column has 10 thoracic vertebrae.
Locomotion and Movement 3
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
d a c a b d c c d a b c b a b a c
18 19 20 21
d a d c