R
E
T
P
A
H Anatomy of
7
C
Flowering Plants
4. Match List-I with List-II (2021)
Meristematic Tissues
List-I List-II
1. Which one of the following is not a lateral meristem? A. Cells with active cell (i) Vascular
(2010) division capacity tissues
a. Interfascicular cambium
B. Tissue having all cells (ii) Meristematic
b. Phellogen similar in structure and tissue
c. Intercalary meristem function
d. Intrafascicular cambium
C. Tissue having different (iii) Sclereids
types of cells
Permanent Tissues
D. Dead cells with highly (iv) Simple Tissue
thickened walls and narrow
lumen
2. Read the following statements about the vascular bundles:
(2022)
Select the correct answer from the options given below.
A. In roots, xylem and phloem in a vascular bundle are
arranged in an alternate manner along the different radii a. A-iv B-iii C-ii D-i
B. Conjoint closed vascular bundles do not possess cambium
b. A-i B-ii C-iii D-iv
C. In open vascular bundles, cambium is present in between
c. A-iii B-ii C-iv D-i
xylem and phloem
D. The vascular bundles of dicotyledonous stem possess d. A-ii B-iv C-i D-iii
endarch protoxylem
5. The transverse section of a plant shows following anatomical
E.In monocotyledonous root, usually there are more than features: (2020)
six xylem bundles present
1. Large number of scattered vascular bundles surrounded
Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
by bundle sheath.
a. A, C, D and E only b. A, B and D only
2. Large conspicuous parenchymatous ground tissue.
c. B, C, D and E only d. A, B, C and D only
3. Vascular bundles conjoint and closed.
3. In old trees the greater part of secondary xylem is dark
4. Phloem parenchyma absent.
brown and resistant to insect attack due to (2022)
Identify the category of plant and its part:
A. Secretion of secondary metabolities and their deposition
a. Monocotyledonous root b. Dicotyledonous stem
in the lumen of vessels
c. Dicotyledonous root d. Monocotyledonous stem
B. Deposition of organic compounds like tannins and resins
in the central layers of stem 6. Phloem in gymnosperms lacks (2019)
C. Deposition of suberin and aromatic substances in the a. Albuminous cells and sieve cells
outer layer of stem
b. Sieve tubes only
D. Deposition of tannins, gum, resin and aromatic substances
c. Companion cells only
in the peripheral layers of stem
d. Both sieve tubes and companion cells
E.Presence of parenchyma cells, functionally active xylem
elements and essential oils. 7. Which of the following is made up of dead cells?
Choose the correct answer from the options given below. (2017-Delhi)
a. B and D only b. A and B only a. Xylem parenchyma b. Collenchyma
c. C and D only d. D and E only c. Phellem d. Phloem
Anatomy of Flowering Plants 2
8. The balloon-shaped structures called tyloses: 15. Large, empty colourless cells of the adaxial epidermis along
[OS] (2016 - II) the veins of grass leaves are (2020-Covid)
a. Are extensions of xylem parenchyma cells into vessels a. Guard cells b. Bundle sheath cells
c. Bulliform cells d. Lenticels
b. Are linked to the ascent of sap through xylem vessels
c. Originate in the lumen of vessels 16. Grass leaves curl inwards during very dry weather. Select
the most appropriate reason from the following (2019)
d. Characterise the sapwood
a. Closure of stomata
9. Tracheids differ from other tracheary elements in: [OS] (2014)
b. Flaccidity of bulliform cells
a. Being lignified b. Having casparian strips
c. Shrinkage of air spaces in spongy mesophyll
c. Being imperforate d. Lacking nucleus d. Tyloses in vessels
17. Secondary xylem and phloem in dicot stem are produced by
Tissue System (2018)
a. Apical meristem b. Vascular cambium
c. Phellogen d. Axillary meristems
10. Stomata in grass leaf are: [OS] (2018)
18. Casparian strips occur in (2018)
a. Dumb-bell shaped b. Kidney shaped
a. Epidermis b. Pericycle
c. Rectangular d. Barrel shaped
c. Cortex d. Endodermis
11. Cortex is the region found between: (2016 - II)
19. A major characteristic of the monocot root is the presence
a. Endodermis and pith
of: (2015)
b. Endodermis and vascular bundle a. Vasculature without cambium
c. Epidermis and stele b. Cambium sandwiched between phloem and xylem along
d. Pericycle and endodermis the radius
c. Open vascular bundles
12. Specialised epidermal cells surrounding the guard cells are
d. Scattered vascular bundles
called (2016 - I)
a. Complementary cells b. Subsidiary cells
Secondary Growth
c. Bulliform cells d. Lenticels
13. Vascular bundles in monocotyledons are considered closed
because: (2015) 20. The anatomy of springwood shows some peculiar features.
Identify the correct set of statements about springwood.
a. There are no vessels with perforations
A. It is also called as the earlywood
b. Xylem is surrounded all around by phloem
B. In spring season cambium produces xylem elements with
c. A bundle sheath surrounds each bundle
narrow vessels
d. Cambium is absent
C. It is lighter in colour.
D. The springwood along with autumnwood shows alternate
concentric rings forming annual rings
Anatomy of Dicot &
E. It has lower density
Monocot Plants Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
a. C, D and E only b. A, B, D and E only
c. A, C, D and E only d. A, B and D only
14. Select the correct pair. (2021)
21. Match List-I with List-II (2021)
a. In dicot leaves, vascular - Conjunctive tissue
List-I List-II
bundles are surrounded by
A. Lenticels (i) Phellogen
large thick-walled cells
B. Cork cambium (ii) Suberin deposition
b. Cells of medullary rays that - Interfascicular
form part of cambial rings cambium C. Secondary cortex (iii) Exchange of gases
c. Loose parenchyma cells - Spongy parenchyma D. Cork (iv) Phelloderm
rupturing the epidermis Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
and forming a lens-shaped
a. A-iii B-i C-iv D-ii
opening in bark
b. A-ii B-iii C-iv D-i
d. Large colorless empty cells - Subsidiary cells
in the epidermis of grass c. A-iv B-ii C-i D-iii
leaves
d. A-iv B-i C-iii D-ii
3 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
22. Identify the incorrect statement. (2020) 27. Identify the wrong statement in context of heartwood:
a. Sapwood is involved in conduction of water and minerals (2017-Delhi)
from root to leaf. a. Organic compounds are deposited in it
b. Sapwood is the innermost secondary xylem and is lighter b. It is highly durable
in colour. c. It conducts water and minerals efficiently
c. Due to deposition of tannins, resins, oils, etc., heart wood d. It comprises dead elements with highly lignified wall
is dark in colour.
28. Read the different components from (A) to (D) in the list
d. Heart wood does not conduct water but gives mechanical given below and tell the correct order of the components
support. with reference to their arrangement from outer side to inner
side in a woody dicot stem: (2015 Re)
23. Which of the following statements about cork cambium is
A. Secondary cortex B. Wood
incorrect? (2020-Covid)
C. Secondary phloem D. Phellem
a. It forms a part of periderm
The correct order is:
b. It is responsible for the formation of lenticels
a. (A), (B), (D), (C) b. (D), (A), (C), (B)
c. It is a couple of layers thick
c. (D), (C), (A), (B) d. (C), (D), (B), (A)
d. It forms secondary cortex on its outerside
29. You are given a fairly old piece of dicot stem and a dicot
24. Which of the statements given below is not true about root. Which of the following anatomical structures will you
formation of annual rings in trees? (2019) use to distinguish between the two? (2014)
a. Annual ring is a combination of spring wood and autumn a. Cortical cells b. Secondary xylem
wood produced in a year c. Secondary phloem d. Protoxylem
b. Differential activity of cambium causes light and dark 30. Lenticels are involved in: (2013)
bands of tissue-early and late wood respectively.
a. Photosynthesis b. Transpiration
c. Activity of cambium depends upon variation in climate.
c. Gaseous exchange d. Food transport
d. Annual rings are not prominent in trees of temperate
31. Interfascicular cambium develops from the cells of: (2013)
region.
a. Pericycle b. Medullary rays
25. Plants having little or no secondary growth are (2018) c. Xylem parenchyma d. Endodermis
a. Grasses b. Deciduous angiosperms
32. Age of a tree can be estimated by: (2013)
c. Conifers d. Cycads
a. Diameter of its heartwood
26. The vascular cambium normally gives rise to: (2017-Delhi) b. Its height and girth
a. Phelloderm b. Primary phloem c. Biomass
c. Secondary xylem d. Periderm d. Number of annual rings
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
c none b d d d c a c a c b d b c b b
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32
d a c a b d d a c c b d c b d