R
E
T
P
A
H
5
C Body Fluids and Circulation
5. Which of the following conditions cause erythroblastosis
Blood and Lymph
foetalis? (2020-Covid)
a. Mother Rh–ve and foetus Rh+ve
1. Given below are two statements: (2022) b. Both mother and foetus Rh–ve
Statement I: The coagulum is formed of network of threads c. Both mother and foetus Rh+ve
called thrombins d. Mother Rh+ve and foetus Rh–ve
Statement II: Spleen is the graveyard of erythrocytes 6. Match the items given in Column-I with those in Column-II
In the light of the above statements, choose the most and select the correct option given below (2018)
appropriate answer from the options given below.
Column-I Column-II
a. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct
A. Fibrinogen i. Osmotic balance
b. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
B. Globulin ii. Blood clotting
c. Both statement I and statement II are incorrect
C. Albumin iii. Defence mechanism
d. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
a. A-iii B-ii C-i b. A-i B-ii C-iii
2. Which enzyme is responsible for the conversion of inactive
c. A-i B-iii C-ii d. A-ii B-iii C-i
fibrinogens to fibrins? (2021)
7. Adult human RBCs are enucleate. Which of the following
a. Renin b. Epinephrine
statement(s) is/are most appropriate explanation for this
c. Thrombokinase d. Thrombin
feature? (2017-Delhi)
3. Persons with ‘AB’ blood group are called as “Universal A. They do not need to reproduce
recipients”. This is due to: (2021) B. They are somatic cells
a. Absence of antigens A and B in plasma C. They do not metabolise
D. All their internal space is available for oxygen transport
b. Presence of antibodies, anti-A and anti-B, on RBCs
a. Only (D) b. Only (A)
c. Absence of antibodies, anti-A and anti-B, in plasma
c. (A), (C) and (D) d. (B) and (C)
d. Absence of antigens A and B on the surface of RBCs
8. Serum differs from blood in: (2016 - II)
4. Match the following columns and select the correct option
a. Lacking clotting factors b. Lacking antibodies
(2020)
c. Lacking globulins d. Lacking albumins
Column-I Column-II
9. Name the blood cells, whose reduction in number can cause
1. Eosinophils (i) Immune response
clotting disorder, leading to excessive loss of blood from the
2. Basophils (ii) Phagocytosis body. (2016 - II)
3. Neutrophils (iii) Release histaminase, a. Neutrophils b. Thrombocytes
destructive enzymes c. Erythrocytes d. Leukocytes
4. Lymphocytes (iv) Release granules contain- 10. Which one of the following is correct? (2015)
ing histamine
a. Lymph = Plasma + RBC + WBC
(1) (2) (3) (4) b. Blood = Plasma + RBC + WBC + Platelets
c. Plasma = Blood – Lymphocytes
a. (iv) (i) (ii) (iii)
d. Serum = Blood + Fibrinogen
b. (i) (ii) (iv) (iii)
11. Erythropoiesis starts in: (2015)
c. (ii) (i) (iii) (iv) a. Spleen b. Red bone marrow
d. (iii) (iv) (ii) (i) c. Kidney d. Liver
Body Fluids and Circulation 2
12. If you suspect major deficiency of antibodies in a person, Select the correct option.
to which of the following would you look for confirmatory a. A-iv B-i C-ii D-iii
evidences? (2015 Re) b. A-iv B-i C-ii D-v
a. Serum albumins c. A-ii B-i C-v D-iii
b. Haemocytes d. A-ii B-iii C-v D-iv
c. Serum globulins 19. Match the items given in Column-I with those in Column-II
d. Fibrinogen in plasma and select the correct option given below: (2018)
13. Person with blood group AB is considered as universal
Column-I Column-II
recipient because he has: (2014)
a. Both A and B antigens in the plasma but no antibodies A. Tricuspid i. Between left atrium and left
b. Both A and B antigens on RBC but no antibodies in the valve ventricle
plasma B. Bicuspid valve ii. Between right ventricle and
c. Both A and B antibodies in the plasma pulmonary artery
d. No antigen on RBC and no antibody in the plasma C. Semilunar iii. Between right atrium and right
14. The most abundant intracellular cation is: [OS] (2013) valve ventricle
a. K+ b. Na+ a. A-iii B-i C-ii
c. Ca++ d. H+ b. A-i B-iii C-ii
c. A-i B-ii C-iii
d. A-ii B-i C-iii
Circulatory Pathways
20. Blood pressure in the mammalian aorta is maximum during:
(2015)
15. Which one of the following statements is correct? (2022)
a. Systole of the left ventricle
a. Increased ventricular pressure causes closing of the
b. Diastole of the right atrium
semilunar valves
c. Systole of the left atrium
b. The atrio-ventricular node (AVN) generates an action
d. Diastole of the right ventricle
potential to stimulate atrial contraction
c. The tricuspid and the bicuspid valves open due to the 21. Which one of the following animals has two separate
pressure exerted by the simultaneous contraction of the circulatory pathways? (2015 Re)
atria a. Lizard
d. Blood moves freely from atrium to the ventricle during
b. Whale
joint diastole.
c. Shark
16. The QRS complex in a standard ECG represents: (2020)
d. Frog
a. Depolarisation of auricles
b. Depolarisation of ventricles 22. Doctors use stethoscope to hear the sounds produced during
each cardiac cycle. The second sound is heard when:
c. Repolarisation of ventricles
(2015 Re)
d. Repolarisation of auricles
a. Ventricular walls vibrate due to pushing in of blood from
17. What would be the heart rate of a person if the cardiac output
atria
is 5 L, blood volume in the ventricles at the end of diastole
is 100 mL and at the end of ventricular systole is 50 mL? b. Semilunar valves close down after the blood flows into
(2019) vessels from ventricles
a. 50 beats per minute c. AV node receives signal from SA Node
b. 75 beats per minute d. AV valves open up
c. 100 beats per minute
23. The diagram given here is the standard ECG of a normal
d. 125 beats per minute person. The P-wave represents the: (2013)
18. Match the Column-I with Column-II (2019)
Column-I Column-II
A. P - wave i. Depolarisation of ventricles
B. QRS complex ii. Repolarisation of ventricle
C. T - wave iii. Coronary ischemia a. End of systole
D. Reduction in the iv. Depolarisation of atria b. Contraction of both the atria
size of T-wave c. Initiation of the ventricular contraction
v. Repolarisation of atria
d. Beginning of the systole
3 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
25. The hepatic portal vein drains blood to liver from (2017-Delhi)
Double Circulation & Regulation a. Heart b. Stomach
of Cardiac Activity c. Kidneys d. Intestine
Disorders of Circulatory System
24. Which of the following is associated with decrease in cardiac
output? (2020-Covid)
26. Blood pressure in the pulmonary artery is: (2016 - I)
a. Parasympathetic neural signals
a. Same as that in the aorta
b. Pneumotaxic centre
b. More than that in the carotid
c. Adrenal medullary hormones c. More than that in the pulmonary vein
d. Sympathetic nerves d. Less than that in the vena cava
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
a d c d a d a a b b b c b a d b c
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
a a a b b b a d c