R
E
T
P
A
H
8
C Neural Control and Coordination
Neural System, Human Neural Central Nervous System and
System and Neuron Reflex Action
1. Select the incorrect statement regarding synapses: (2022) 6. Which part of the brain is responsible for thermoregulation?
a. Impulse transmission across a chemical synapse is always (2019)
faster than that across an electrical synapse. a. Cerebrum b. Hypothalamus
b. The membranes of preseynaptic and postsynaptic neurons c. Corpus callosum d. Medulla oblongata
are in close proximity in an electrical synapse. 7. Which of the following structures or regions is incorrectly
c. Electrical current can flow directly from one neuron into paired with its function? (2018)
the other across the electrical synapse. a. Medulla oblongata : controls respiration and cardiovascular
d. Chemical synapses use neurotransmitters reflexes.
2. Nissl bodies are mainly composed of: (2018) b. Limbic system : consists of fibre tracts that interconnect
a. Proteins and lipids b. DNA and RNA different regions of brain; controls movement.
c. Nucleic acids and SER d. Free ribosomes and RER c. Hypothalamus : production of releasing hormones and
regulation of temperature, hunger and thirst.
3. Myelin sheath is produced by: [OS] (2017-Delhi)
d. Corpus callosum : band of fibres connecting left and right
a. Schwann Cells and Oligodendrocytes
cerebral hemispheres.
b. Astrocytes and Schwann Cells
8. Which of the following regions of the brain is incorrectly
c. Oligodendrocytes and Osteoclasts
paired with its function? (2015)
d. Osteoclasts and Astrocytes
a. Corpus callosum-Communication between the left and
4. Receptor sites for neurotransmitters are present on: right cerebral cortices
(2017-Delhi) b. Cerebrum-Calculation and contemplation
a. Membranes of synaptic vesicles c. Medulla oblongata-Homeostatic control
b. Pre-synaptic membrane d. Cerebellum-Language comprehension
c. Tips of axons
9. Injury localised to the hypothalamus would most likely
d. Post-synaptic membrane disrupt: (2014)
5. A diagram showing axon terminal and synapse is given. a. Regulation of body temperature
Identify correctly at least two of A-D (2013) b. Short term memory
c. Co-ordination during locomotion
d. Executive function, such as decision making
Reflex Action and Reflex Arc
10. Destruction of the anterior horn cell of the spinal cord would
result in loss of: [RC] (2015 Re)
a. C-Neurotransmitter; D-Ca++ a. Voluntary motor impulses
b. A-Receptor; C-Synaptic vesicles b. Commissural impulses
c. B-Synaptic connection; D-K+ c. Integrating impulses
d. A-Neurotransmitter; B-Synaptic cleft d. Sensory impulses
2 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
17. Photosensitive compound in human eye is made up of:
Sensory Organs
[RC] (2016 - I)
a. Guanosine and Retinol b. Opsin and Retinal
11. The Pacinian corpuscle responds to rapid changes in:
c. Opsin and Retinol d. Transducin and Retinone
[RC] (2017-Gujarat)
18. In mammalian eye, the ‘fovea’ is the centre of the visual
a. Light intensity b. Gravity
field, where: [RC] (2015 Re)
c. Pressure d. Temperature
a. The optic nerve leaves the eye.
Eye b. Only rods are present.
c. More rods than cones are found.
12. Match the following columns and select the correct option: d. High density of cones occurs, but has no rods
[RC] (2020-Covid)
19. Parts A, B, C and D of the human eye are shown in the
Column-I Column-II diagram. Select the option which gives correct identification
1. Rods and Cones (i) Absence of photoreceptor cells along with its functions/ characteristics: [RC] (2013)
2. Blind Spot (ii) Cones are densely packed
3. Fovea (iii) Photoreceptor cells
4. Iris (iv) Visible coloured portion of the eye
(1) (2) (3) (4)
a. (ii) (iii) (i) (iv)
b. (iii) (iv) (ii) (i)
c. (ii) (iv) (iii) (i)
d. (iii) (i) (ii) (iv)
a. D: Choroid – Its anterior part forms ciliary body
13. Which of the following statements is correct? [RC] (2019)
b. A: Retina – Contains photo receptors – rods and cones
a. Cornea is an external, transparent and protective
c. B: Blind spot – Has only a few rods and cones
proteinacious covering of the eye-ball.
b. Cornea consists of dense connective tissue of elastin and d. C: Aqueous chamber – Reflects the light which does not
can repair itself. pass through the lens
c. Cornea is convex, transparent layer which is highly
vascularised. Ear
d. Cornea consists of dense matrix of collagen and is the
most sensitive portion the eye.
20. Match the following columns and select the correct option
14. The transparent lens in the human eye is held in its place by: [RC] (2020)
[RC] (2018)
Column-I Column-II
a. Ligaments attached to the ciliary body
1. Organ of corti (i) Connects middle ear and
b. Ligaments attached to the iris
pharynx
c. Smooth muscles attached to the iris
2. Cochlea (ii) Coiled part of the labyrinth
d. Smooth muscles attached to the ciliary body
3. Eustachian (iii) Attached to the oval window
15. Good vision depends on adequate intake of carotene rich
tube
food [RC] (2017-Delhi)
4. Stapes (iv) Located on the basilar membrane
Select the best option from the following statements
A. Vitamin A derivatives are formed from carotene (1) (2) (3) (4)
B. The photopigments are embedded in the membrane discs a. (iii) (i) (iv) (ii)
of the inner segment
b. (iv) (ii) (i) (iii)
C. Retinal is a derivative of vitamin A
c. (i) (ii) (iv) (iii)
D. Retinal is a light absorbing part of all the visual
photopigments d. (ii) (iii) (i) (iv)
a. (A) & (B) b. (A), (C) & (D)
21. Which of the following ossicles is adhered to tympanic
c. (A) & (C) d. (B), (C) & (D)
membrane of middle ear? [RC] (2017-Gujarat)
16. Choose the correct statement. [RC] (2016 - II)
a. Malleus b. Incus
a. Photoreceptors in the human eye are depolarised during
c. Stapes d. Utricle
darkness and become hyperpolarised in response to the
light stimulus. 22. A gymnast is able to balance his body upside down even in
the total darkness because of: [RC] (2015)
b. Receptors do not produce graded potentials.
c. Nociceptors respond to changes in pressure. a. Tectorial membrane b. Organ of Corti
d. Meissner’s corpuscles are thermoreceptors. c. Cochlea d. Vestibular apparatus
Neural Control and Coordination 3
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
a d a d b b b d a a c d d a b a b
18 19 20 21 22
d b b a d