R
E
T
P
A
H Biotechnology and
6
C
It's Application
8. Golden rice is a genetically modified crop plant where the
Biotechnological incorporated gene is meant for biosynthesis of: (2015 Re)
Application in Agriculture a. Vitamin C b. Omega 3
c. Vitamin A d. Vitamin B
1. Transposons can be used during which one of the following? 9. Which of the following Bt crops is being grown in India by
(2022) the farmers? (2013)
a. Gene sequencing b. Polymerase Chain Reaction a. Soyabean b. Maize
c. Gene silencing d. Autoradiography c. Cotton d. Brinjal
2. Bt cotton variety that was developed by the introduction
of toxin gene of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is resistant to
Biotechnological
(2020)
a. Fungal diseases b. Plant nematodes Application in Medicine
c. Insect predators d. Insect pests
3. RNA interference is used for which of the following purposes
10. In gene therapy of Adenosine Deaminase (ADA) deficiency,
in the field of biotechnology? (2020-Covid)
the patient requires periodic infusion genetically engineered
a. To develop a pest resistant plant against infestation by
lymphocytes because: (2022)
nematode
a. Genetically engineered lymphocytes are not immortal
b. To enhance the mineral usage by the plant
cells.
c. To reduce post harvest losses
b. Retroviral vector is introduced into these lymphocytes.
d. To develop a plant tolerant to abiotic stresses
c. Gene isolated from marrow cells producing ADA is
4. Which of the following is true for Golden rice? (2019)
introduced into cells at embryonic stages
a. It is Vitamin A enriched, with a gene from daffodil
d. Lymphocytes from patient's blood are grown in culture,
b. It is pest resistant, with a gene from Bacillus thuringiensis
outside the body.
c. It is drought tolerant, developed using Agrobacterium
11. Statements related to human Insulin are given below. Which
vector
statement(s) is/are correct about genetically engineered
d. It has yellow grains, because of a gene introduced from a
Insulin? (2022)
primitive variety of rice
5.What triggers activation of protoxin to active Bt toxin of A. Pro-hormone insulin contain extra stretch of C-peptide
Bacillus thuringiensis in boll worm? (2019) B. A-peptide and B-peptide chains of insulin were produced
a. Body temperature b. Moist surface of midgut separately in E.coli, extracted and combined by creating
c. Alkaline pH of gut d. Acidic pH of stomach disulphide bond between them.
6. Which part of the tobacco plant is infected by Meloidogyne C. Insulin used for treating Diabetes was extracted from
incognita? (2016 - I) Cattles and Pigs.
a. Flower b. Leaf D. Pro-hormone Insulin needs to be processed for converting
c. Stem d. Root into a mature and functional hormone.
7. In Bt cotton, the Bt toxin present in plant tissue as pro-toxin E.Some patients develop allergic reactions to the foreign
is converted into active toxin due to: (2015) insulin.
a. Action of gut micro-organism Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given
b. Presence of conversion factors in insect gut below.
c. Alkaline pH of the insect gut a. C, D and E only b. A, B and D only
d. Acidic pH of the insect gut c. B only d. C and D only
Biotechnology and its Application 2
12. When gene targetting involving gene amplification is 20. Match the following columns and select the correct option
attempted in an individual’s tissue to treat disease, it is (2020)
known as: (2021)
Column-I Column-II
a. Gene therapy b. Molecular diagnosis
1. Bt cotton (i) Gene therapy
c. Safety testing d. Biopiracy
2. Adenosine deaminase (ii) Cellular defence
13. Which of the following is not an application of PCR deficiency
(Polymerase Chain Reaction) ? (2021)
3. RNAi (iii) Detection of HIV infection
a. Gene amplification b. Purification of isolated protein
4. PCR (iv) Bacillus thuringiensis
c. Detection of gene mutation d. Molecular diagnosis
14. Which of the following is a correct sequence of steps in a (1) (2) (3) (4)
PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction)? (2021) a. (iii) (ii) (i) (iv)
a. Denaturation, Extension, Annealing b. (ii) (iii) (iv) (i)
b. Extension, Denaturation, Annealing c. (i) (ii) (iii) (iv)
d. (iv) (i) (ii) (iii)
c. Annealing, Denaturation, Extension
21. Which of the following is commonly used as a vector
d. Denaturation, Annealing, Extension
for introducing a DNA fragment in human lymphocytes?
15. Now a days it is possible to detect the mutated gene
(2018)
causing cancer by allowing radioactive probe to hybridise
a. Retrovirus b. Ti plasmid
its complimentary DNA in a clone of cells, followed by its
detection using autoradiography because: (2021) c. λ phage d. pBR322
a. Mutated gene completely and clearly appears on a 22. Which kind of therapy was given in 1990 to a four year old
photographic film. girl with adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency? (2016 - II)
b. Mutated gene does not appear on a photographic film as a. Immunotherapy b. Radiation therapy
the prober has no complimentarity with it. c. Gene therapy d. Chemotherapy
c. Mutated gene does not appear on photographic film as the 23. The two polypeptides of human insulin are linked together
probe has complimentarity with it. by: (2016 - I)
d. Mutated gene partially appears on a photographic film. a. Hydrogen bonds b. Phosphodiester bond
16. With regard to insulin choose correct options. (2021) c. Covalent bond d. Disulphide bridges
A. C-peptide is not present in mature insulin. 24. ADA is an enzyme which is deficient in a genetic disorder
B. The insulin produced by rDNA technology has C-peptide. SCID. What is the full form of ADA? (2014)
C. The pro-insulin has C-peptide. a. Adenosine DeoxyAminase b. Adenosine Deaminase
D. A-peptide and B-peptide of insulin are interconnected by c. Aspartate Deaminase d. Arginine Deaminase
disulphide bridges. 25. The first human hormone produced by recombinant DNA
Choose the correct answer from the options given below. technology is: (2014)
a. B and C only b. A, C and D only a. Progesterone b. Insulin
c. A and D only d. B and D only c. Estrogen d. Thyroxin
17. For effective treatment of the disease, early diagnosis and
understanding its pathophysiology is very important. Which Ethical Issues
of the following molecular diagnostic techniques is very
useful for early detection? (2021)
26. The laws and rules to prevent unauthorised exploitation of
a. Southern Blotting Technique
bio-resources are termed as- (2020-Covid)
b. ELISA Technique
a. Bioethics b. Bioengineering
c. Hybridization Technique
c. Biopiracy d. Biopatenting
d. Western Blotting Technique
27. In India, the organisation responsible for assessing the safety
18. The adenosine deaminase deficiency results into: (2021) of introducing genetically modified organisms for public use
a. Parkinson’s disease is: (2018)
b. Digestive disorder a. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)
c. Addison’s disease b. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
d. Dysfunction of Immune system c. Research Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM)
19. Which of the following statements is not correct? (2020) d. Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee (GEAC)
a. The proinsulin has an extra peptide called C-peptide 28. A ‘new’ variety of rice was patented by a foreign company
b. The functional insulin has A and B chains linked together though such varieties have been present in India for a long
by hydrogen bonds time. This is related to: (2018)
c. Genetically engineered insulin is produced in E.coli. a. Co-667 b. Sharbati Sonora
d. In man insulin is synthesised as a proinsulin. c. Lerma Rojo d. Basmati
3 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
29. Use of bioresources by multinational companies and 30. Which body of the Government of India regulates GM
organisations without authorisation from the concerned research and safety of introducing GM organisms for public
country and its people is called: (2018) services? (2015)
a. Bio-infringement a. Genetic Engineering Approval Committee
b. Biopiracy b. Research Committee on Genetic Manipulation
c. Biodegradation c. Bio-safety committee
d. Bioexploitation d. Indian Council of Agricultural Research
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
c d a a c d c c c a c a b d b b b
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
d b d a c d b b d d d b a