R
E
T
P
A
H
3
C Biomolecules
6. A phosphoglyceride is always made up of: (2013)
Analysis of Chemical Composition
a. A saturated or unsaturated fatty acid esterified to a
phosphate group which is also attached to a glycerol
1. Read the following statements and choose the set of correct molecule
statements (2022) b. Only a saturated fatty acid esterified to a glycerol molecule
A. Lecithin found in the plasma membrane is a glycolipid to which a phosphate group is also attached
B. Saturated fatty acids possess one or more c=c bonds c. Only an unsaturated fatty acid esterified to a glycerol
C. Gingely oil has lower melting point, hence remains as oil molecule to which a phosphate group is also attached
in winter d. A saturated or unsaturated fatty acid esterified to a glycerol
D. Lipids are generally insoluble in water but soluble in molecule to which a phosphate group is also attached
some organic solvents
E.When fatty acid is esterified with glycerol, monoglycerides Primary & Secondary Metabolites
are formed
Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
7. Identify the incorrect pair. (2021)
a. A, B and D only b. A, B and C only
a. Toxin - Abrin b. Lectins - Concanavalin A
c. A, D and E only d. C, D and E only
c. Drugs - Ricin d. Alkaloids - Codeine
2. Following are the statements with reference to ‘lipids’.
8. Which of the following are not secondary metabolites in
A. Lipids having only single bonds are called unsaturated
plants? (2021)
fatty acids.
a. Amino acids, glucose b. Vinblastin, curcumin
B. Lecithin is a phospholipid.
c. Rubber, gums d. Morphine, codeine
C. Trihydroxy propane is glycerol.
9. Concanavalin A is (2019)
D. Palmitic acid has 20 carbon atoms including carboxyl
carbon. a. An alkaloid b. An essential oil
E.Arachidonic acid has 16 carbon atoms. c. A lectin d. A pigment
Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
Biomacromolecules, Proteins
(2021)
a. C & D only b. B & C only
c. B & E only d. A & B only 10. Match List-I with List-II. (2022)
3. Identify the basic amino acid from the following. (2020)
List-I List-II
a. Glutamic acid b. Lysine (Biological Molecules) (Biological function)
c. Valine d. Tyrosine
(A) Glycogen (i) Hormone
4. Identify the statement which is incorrect. (2020-Covid)
(B) Globulin (ii) Biocatalyst
a. Glycine is an example of lipids
b. Lecithin contains phosphorus atom in its structure (C) Steroids (iii) Antibody
c. Tyrosine possesses aromatic ring in its structure (D) Thrombin (iv) Storage product
d. Sulphur is an integral part of cysteine
Choose the correct answer from the options given below.
5. A typical fat molecule is made up of: (2016 - I) a. A-iv B-iii C-i D-ii
a. Three glycerol molecules and one fatty acid molecule
b. A-iii B-ii C-iv D-i
b. One glycerol and three fatty acid molecules
c. A-iv B-ii C-i D-iii
c. One glycerol and one fatty acid molecule
d. A-ii B-iv C-iii D-i
d. Three glycerol and three fatty acid molecules
2 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
11. Which one of the following is the most abundant protein in 19. The two functional groups characteristic of sugars are:
the animals? (2020) (2018)
a. Collagen b. Lectin a. Hydroxyl and methyl b. Carbonyl and methyl
c. Insulin d. Haemoglobin c. Carbonyl and phosphate d. Carbonyl and hydroxyl
12. Which of the following glucose transporters is insulin- 20. Which one of the following statements is wrong? (2016 - I)
dependent? (2019) a. Sucrose is a disaccharide
a. GLUT I b. GLUT II b. Cellulose is a polysaccharide
c. GLUT III d. GLUT IV
c. Uracil is a pyrimidine
13. Which of the following are not polymeric? (2017-Delhi) d. Glycine is a sulphur containing amino acid
a. Nucleic acids b. Proteins
21. The chitinous exoskeleton of arthropods is formed by the
c. Polysaccharides d. Lipids
polymerisation of: (2015 Re)
14. Which of the following is the least likely to be involved in a. D-glucosamine
stabilising the three–dimensional folding of most proteins?
b. N-acetyl glucosamine
[OS] (2016 - II)
c. Lipoglycans
a. Hydrophobic interaction b. Ester bonds
d. Keratin sulphate and chondroitin sulphate
c. Hydrogen bonds d. Electrostatic interaction
22. Whch of the following biomolecules does have phosphodiester
bond? (2015 Re)
Polysaccharides, Nucleic Acids
a. Monosacchardes in polysaccharide
& Types of Bond
b. Amino acids in a polypeptide
c. Nucleic acids in a nucleotide
15. Exoskeleton of arthropods is composed of: (2022) d. Fatty acids in a diglyceride
a. Glucosamine b. Cutin 23. Which one of the following is a non-reducing carbohydrate?
c. Cellulose d. Chitin (2014)
a. Ribose 5-phosphate b. Maltose
16. Match List-I with List-II (2021)
c. Sucrose d. Lactose
List-I List-II
A. Protein (i) C = C double bonds Enzymes
B. Unsaturated fatty (ii) Phosphodiester bonds
acid
24. Match the following. Choose the correct option from the
C. Nucleic acid (iii) Glycosidic bonds following: (2020)
D. Polysaccharide (iv) Peptide bonds
Column-I Column-II
Choose the correct answer from the options given below. 1. Inhibitor of catalytic activity (i) Ricin
a. A-i B-iv C-iii D-ii 2. Possess peptide bonds (ii) Malonate
b. A-ii B-i C-iv D-iii
3. Cell wall material in fungi (iii) Chitin
c. A-iv B-iii C-i D-ii
d. A-iv B-i C-ii D-iii 4. Secondary metabolite (iv) Collagen
17. Identify the substances having glycosidic bond and peptide (A) (B) (C) (D)
bond, respectively in their structure: (2020) a. (iii) (i) (iv) (ii)
a. Glycerol, trypsin b. Cellulose, lecithin b. (iii) (iv) (i) (ii)
c. Inulin, insulin d. Chitin, cholesterol c. (ii) (iii) (i) (iv)
18. Match the following: (2020-Covid) d. (ii) (iv) (iii) (i)
25. Consider the following statement :
1. Aquaporin (i) Amide
A. Coenzyme or metal ion that is tightly bound to enzyme
2. Asparagine (ii) Polysaccharide
protein is called prosthetic group.
3. Abscisic acid (iii) Polypeptide
B. A complete catalytic active enzyme with its bound
4. Chitin (iv) Carotenoids
prosthetic group is called apoenzyme.
Select the correct option: Select the correct option. (2019)
(A) (B) (C) (D)
a. Both (A) and (B) are true.
a. (ii) (iii) (iv) (i)
b. (A) is true but (B) is false.
b. (ii) (i) (iv) (iii)
c. Both (A) and (B) are false.
c. (iii) (i) (ii) (iv)
d. (iii) (i) (iv) (ii) d. (A) is false but (B) is true.
Biomolecules 3
26. Which one of the following statements is correct, with 29. Which one of the following statements is incorrect? (2015)
reference to enzymes? (2017-Delhi) a. The competitive inhibitor does not affect the rate of
a. Apoenzyme = Holoenzyme + Coenzyme breakdown of the enzyme substrate complex
b. Holoenzyme = Apoenzyme + Coenzyme b. The presence of the competitive inhibitor decreases the
c. Coenzyme = Apoenzyme + Holoenzyme K of the enzyme for the substrate
m
d. Holoenzyme = Coenzyme + Cofactor c. A competitive inhibitor reacts with the enzyme to form
27. Which of the following describes the given graph correctly? an enzyme inhibitor complex
(2016 - II) d. In competitive inhibition, the inhibitor molecule is not
chemically changed by the enzyme
30. Select the option which is not correct with respect to enzyme
action: (2014)
a. Malonate is a competitive inhibitor of succinic
dehydrogenase
b. Substrate binds with enzyme at its active site
c. Addition of lot of succinate does not reverse the inhibition
of succinic dehydrogenase by malonate
a. Endothermic reaction with energy A in absence of enzyme d. A non-competitive inhibitor binds the enzyme at a site
and B in presence of enzyme distinct from that which binds the substrate
b. Exothermic reaction with energy A in absence of enzyme
31. The essential chemical components of many coenzymes are:
and B in presence of enzyme
(2013)
c. Endothermic reaction with energy A in presence of
a. Vitamins b. Proteins
enzyme and B in absence of enzyme
c. Nucleic acids d. Carbohydrates
d. Exothermic reaction with energy A in presence of enzyme
and B in absence of enzyme. 32. Transition state structure of the substrate formed during an
28. A non-proteinaceous enzyme is: (2016 - II) enzymatic reaction is: (2013)
a. Ligase b. Deoxyribonuclease a. Permanent and stable b. Transient but stable
c. Lysozyme d. Ribozyme c. Permanent but unstable d. Transient and unstable
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
d b b a b d c a c a a d d b d d c
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32
d d d b c c d b b d d b c a d