R
E
T
P
A
H Excretory Products and
6
C
their Elimination
Excretory Organs, Human Urine Formation, Function
Excretory System of Tubules
1. Nitrogenous waste is excreted in the form of pellet or paste 4. Which of the following statements is correct? (2017-Delhi)
by (2022)
a. The ascending limb of loop of Henle is impermeable to
a. Pavo
water
b. Ornithorhynchus
b. The descending limb of loop of Henle is impermeable to
c. Salamandra water
d. Hippocampus c. The ascending limb of loop of Henle is permeable to
2. In mammals, which blood vessel would normally carry water
largest amount of urea? (2016 - I) d. The descending limb of loop of Henle is permeable to
electrolytes
a. Renal Vein
5. The part of nephron involved in active reabsorption of
b. Dorsal Aorta
sodium is: (2016 - II)
c. Hepatic Vein
a. Bowman’s capsule
d. Hepatic Portal Vein
b. Descending limb of Henle’s loop
3. Figure shows human urinary system with structures labeled
c. Distal convoluted tubule
A to D. Select option which correctly identifies them and
d. Proximal convoluted tubule
gives their characteristics and/ or functions: (2013)
6. Removal of proximal convoluted tubule from the nephron
will result in: (2015)
a. No change in quality and quantity of urine
b. No urine formation
c. More diluted urine
d. More concentrated urine
Mechanism of Concentration of
Filtrate, Regulation of Kidney
Functions, Micturition
a. D-Cortex - Outer part of kidney and do not contain any
part of nephrons.
b. A-Adrenal gland- Located at the anterior part of kidney.
7. Select the correct statement: (2020-Covid)
Secrete catecholamine’s which stimulate glycogen
a. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasodilator.
breakdown.
b. Counter current pattern of blood flow is not observed in
c. B-Pelvis-Broad funnel shaped space inner to hilum, vasa recta.
directly connected to loops of Henle’s. c. Reduction in Glomerular Filtration Rate activates JG cells
d. C-Medulla - Inner zone of kidney and contains complete to release renin.
nephrons. d. Atrial Natriuretic Factor increases the blood pressure.
Excretory Products and their Elimination 2
8. The increase in osmolarity from outer to inner medullary 13. Human urine is usually acidic because: (2015 Re)
interstitium is maintained due to: (2020-Covid) a. Excreted plasma proteins are acidic
(i) Close proximity between Henle's loop and vasa recta
b. Potassium and sodium exchange generates acidity
(ii) Counter current mechanism
c. Hydrogen ions are actively secreted into the filtrate.
(iii) Selective secretion of HCO– and hydrogen ions in PCT
3 d. The sodium transporter exchanges one hydrogen ion
(iv) Higher blood pressure in glomerular capillaries
for each sodium ion, in peritubular capillaries.
a. (iii) and (iv) b. (i), (ii) and (iii)
14. Which of the following causes an increase in sodium
c. (i) and (ii) d. Only (ii)
reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule? (2014)
9. Which of the following factors is responsible for the formation
a. Decrease in antidiuretic hormone levels
of concentrated urine? (2019)
b. Increase in aldosterone levels
a. Low levels of antidiuretic hormone
c. Increase in antidiuretic hormone levels
b. Maintaining hyperosmolarity towards inner medullary
d. Decrease in aldosterone levels
interstitium in the kidneys.
c. Secretion of erythropoietin by Juxtaglomerular complex
Role of Other Organs and
d. Hydrostatic pressure during glomerular filtration
Excretory Disorders
10. Match the items given in Column-I with those Column-II and
select the correct option given below (2018)
15. Use of an artificial kidney during hemodialysis may result in :
Column-I Column-II
(Function) (Part of Excretory System) (2019)
A. Nitrogenous waste build-up in the body
A. Ultrafiltration i. Henle's loop
B. Non-elimination of excess potassium ions
B. Concentration of urine ii. Ureter
C. Reduced absorption of calcium ions from gastro-intestinal
C. Transport of urine iii. Urinary bladder tract
D. Storage of urine iv. Malpighian corpuscle D. Reduced RBC production
Which of the following option is the most appropriate?
v. Proximal convoluted tubule
a. (A) and (B) are correct b. (B) and (C) are correct
a. A-iv B-v C-ii D-iii
c. (C) and (D) are correct d. (A) and (D) are correct
b. A-iv B-i C-ii D-iii
c. A-v B-iv C-i D-ii 16. Match the items given in Column-I with those in Column-II
and select the correct option given below (2018)
d. A-v B-iv C-i D-iii
11. A decrease in blood pressure/volume will not cause the Column-I Column-II
release of (2017-Delhi) A. Glycosuria i. Accumulation of uric acid in
a. Renin joints
b. Atrial Natriuretic Factor B. Gout ii. Mass of crystallised salts within
c. Aldosterone the kidney
d. ADH C. Renal calculi iii. Inflammation in glomeruli
D. Glomerular iv. Presence of glucose in urine
12. Which of the following does not favour the formation of
nephritis
large quantities of dilute urine? (2015)
a. Renin a. A-iii B-ii C-iv D-i
b. Atrial-natriuretic factor b. A-i B-ii C-iii D-iv
c. Alcohol c. A-ii B-iii C-i D-iv
d. Caffeine d. A-iv B-i C-ii D-iii
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
a c b a d c c c b b b a c b c d