R
E
T
P
A
H Chemical Coordination and
9
C
Integration
Thyroid, Parathyroid, Thymus
Hypothalamus, Pituitary Gland,
Pineal Gland
6. Which of the following are not the effects of Parathyroid
hormone? (2022)
A. Stimulates the process of bone resorption
1. Hormones stored and released from neurohypophysis are:
B. Decrease Ca2+ level in blood
(2020-Covid)
a. Oxytocin and Vasopressin C. Reabsorption of Ca2+ by renal tubules
b. Follicle stimulating hormone and Leutinizing hormone D. Decrease the absorption of Ca2+ from digested food
E.Increases metabolism of carbohydrates
c. Prolactin and Vasopressin
Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given
d. Thyroid stimulating hormone and oxytocin
below:
2. Hypersecretion of growth hormone in adults does not cause a. B and C only b. A and C only
further increase in height, because [OS] (2017-Delhi)
c. B, D and E only d. A and E only
a. Growth hormone becomes inactive in adults
7. Which of the following hormones can play a significant role
b. Epiphyseal plates close after adolescence in osteoporesis? (2018)
c. Bones loose their sensitivity to growth hormone in adults a. Aldosterone and Prolactin
d. Muscle fibres do not grow in size after birth b. Progesterone and Aldosterone
3. GnRH, a hypothalamic hormone, needed in reproduction, acts c. Estrogen and Parathyroid hormone
on (2017-Delhi) d. Parathyroid hormone and Prolactin
a. Anterior pituitary gland and stimulates secretion of LH 8. Thymosin is responsible for: (2017-Delhi)
and oxytocin a. Decreased production of T-lymphocytes
b. Anterior pituitary gland and stimulates secretion of LH b. Inhibiting the production of antibodies
and FSH c. Decreasing the blood calcium level in old individuals
c. Posterior pituitary gland and stimulates secretion of d. Increased production of T-lymphocytes
oxytocin and FSH 9. Identify the hormone with its correct matching of source and
d. Posterior pituitary gland and stimulates secretion of LH function: (2014)
and relaxin a. Atrial natriuretic factor: Ventricular wall, increases the
4. The posterior pituitary gland is not a ‘true’ endocrine gland blood pressure
because: (2016 - II) b. Oxytocin: Posterior pituitary, growth and maintenance of
mammary glands
a. It is under the regulation of hypothalamus
c. Melatonin: Pineal gland, regulates the normal rhythm of
b. It secretes enzymes
sleep wake cycle
c. It is provided with a duct
d. Progesterone: Corpus-luteum, stimulation of growth and
d. It only stores and releases hormones
activities of female secondary sex organs
5. Which one of the following hormones though synthesised
10. A pregnant female delivers a baby who suffers from stunted
elsewhere is stored and released by the master gland?
growth, mental retardation, low intelligence quotient and
(2015 Re)
abnormal skin. This is the result of: (2013)
a. Luteinising hormone a. Over-secretion of pars distalis
b. Prolactin b. Deficiency of iodine in diet
c. Melanocyte stimulating hormone c. Low secretion of growth hormone
d. Antidiuretic hormone d. Cancer of the thyroid gland
Chemical Coordination and Integration 2
17. A chemical signal that has both endocrine and neural roles
Adrenal gland, Pancreas
is: (2015)
a. Epinephrine b. Cortisol
11. Presence of which of the following conditions in urine are
indicative of Diabetes Mellitus? (2020) c. Melatonin d. Calcitonin
a. Uremia and Renal Calculi 18. Which one of the following hormones is not involved in
b. Ketonuria and Glycosuria sugar metabolism? (2015 Re)
c. Renal calculi and Hyperglycaemia
a. Aldosterone b. Insulin
d. Uremia and Ketonuria
c. Glucagon d. Cortisone
12. Match the following columns and select the correct option.
(2020) 19. Fight-or-flight reactions cause activation of: (2014)
Column-I Column-II a. The pancreas leading to a reduction in the blood sugar
1. Pituitary gland (i) Grave’s disease levels
2. Thyroid gland (ii) Diabetes mellitus b. The parathyroid glands, leading to increased metabolic
rate
3. Adrenal gland (iii) Diabetes insipidus
4. Pancreas (iv) Addision’s disease c. The kidney, leading to suppression of renin angiotensin-
aldosterone pathway
(1) (2) (3) (4)
a. (iii) (ii) (i) (iv) d. The adrenal medulla, leading to increased secretion of
b. (iii) (i) (iv) (ii) epinephrine and norepinephrine
c. (ii) (i) (iv) (iii)
d. (iv) (iii) (i) (ii)
13. Which of the following would help in prevention of diuresis? Testis, Ovary, Hormones of Heart,
(2020)
Kidney and GI Tract
a. Reabsorption of Na+ and water from renal tubules due to
aldosterone
b. Atrial natriuretic factor causes vasoconstriction
20. Erythropoietin hormone which stimulates R.B.C. formation
c. Decrease in secretion of renin by JG cells
is produced by: (2021)
d. More water reabsorption due to undersecrtion of ADH
a. The cells of rostral adenohypophysis
14. Select the correct statement (2020)
b. The cells of bone marrow
a. Glucagon is associated with hypoglycemia.
b. Insulin acts on pancreatic cells and adipocytes. c. Juxtaglomerular cells of the kidney
c. Insulin is associated with hyperglycemia. d. Alpha cells of pancreas.
d. Glucocorticoids stimulate gluconeogenesis.
21. Match the following columns and select the correct option:
15. Match the following hormones with the respective disease (2020-Covid)
(2019)
Column-I Column-II
A. Insulin i. Addison's disease
B. Thyroxin ii. Diabetes insipidus
1. Ovary (i) Human chorionic Gonadotropin
C. Corticoids iii. Acromegaly
D. Growth Hormone iv. Goitre
2. Placenta (ii) Estrogen & Progesterone
v. Diabetes mellitus
Select the correct option. 3. Corpus luteum (iii) Androgens
(A) (B) (C) (D)
a. (v) (i) (ii) (iii) 4. Leydig cells (iv) Progesterone only
b. (ii) (iv) (iii) (i)
c. (v) (iv) (i) (iii) Select the correct option from following:
d. (ii) (iv) (i) (iii)
(1) (2) (3) (4)
16. Graves’ disease is caused due to: [OS] (2016 - II)
a. (i) (ii) (iii) (iv)
a. Hyposecretion of adrenal gland
b. (i) (iii) (ii) (iv)
b. Hypersecretion of adrenal gland
c. (ii) (i) (iv) (iii)
c. Hyposecretion of thyroid gland
d. Hypersecretion of thyroid gland d. (iv) (iii) (ii) (i)
3 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
22. Which of the following pairs of hormones are not antagonistic
Mechanism of Hormone Action
(having opposite effects) to each other? (2016 - I)
26. Match the following columns and select the correct option:
a. Parathormone - Calcitonin
(2020-Covid)
b. Insulin - Glucagon
Column-I Column-II
c. Aldosterone - Atrial Natriuretic Factor 1. Pituitary hormone (i) Steroid
2. Epinephrine (ii) Neuropeptides
d. Relaxin - Inhibin
3. Endorphins (iii) Peptides, proteins
23. Which hormones do stimulate the production of pancreatic
4. Cortisol (iv) Biogenic amines
juice and bicarbonate? (2016 - II)
(1) (2) (3) (4)
a. Cholecystokinin and secretin
a. (iii) (iv) (ii) (i)
b. Insulin and glucagon
b. (iv) (iii) (i) (ii)
c. Angiotensin and epinephrine
c. (iii) (iv) (i) (ii)
d. Gastrin and insulin
d. (iv) (i) (ii) (iii)
24. Which of the following statement is correct in relation to the 27. How does steroid hormone influence the cellular activities?
endocrine system? (2013) (2019)
a. Changing the permeability of the cell membrane
a. Releasing and inhibitory hormones are produced by the
b. Binding to DNA and forming a gene-hormone complex
pituitary gland
c. Activating cyclic AMP located on the cell membrane
b. Adenohypophysis is under direct neural regulation of the
d. Using aquaporin channels as second messenger
hypothalamus
28. Which of the following is an amino acid derived hormone?
c. Organs in the body like gastrointestinal tract, heart, kidney (2018)
and liver do not produce any hormones a. Epinephrine b. Ecdysone
c. Estradiol d. Estriol
d. Non - nutrient chemicals produced by the body in trace
29. Name a peptide hormone which acts mainly on hepatocytes,
amount that act as intercellular messenger are known as
adipocytes and enhances cellular glucose uptake and
hormones
utilisation. (2016 - II)
25. Which one of the following is not the function of placenta? a. Secretin b. Gastrin
(2013) c. Insulin d. Glucagon
30. The amino acid Tryptophan is the precursor for the synthesis
a. Secretes oxytocin during parturition
of: (2016 - I)
b. Facilitates supply of oxygen and nutrients to embryo
a. Melatonin and Serotonin
c. Secretes estrogen b. Thyroxine and Triiodothyronine
d. Facilitates removal of carbon dioxide and waste material c. Estrogen and Progesterone
from embryo d. Cortisol and Cortisone
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
a b b d d c c d c b b b a d c d a
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
a d c c d a d a a b a c a