R
E
T
P
A
H
1
C Human Reproduction
Male Reproductive System Gametogenesis
1. Select the correct sequence for transport of sperm cells in 6. Which of the following statements are true for spermatogenesis
male reproductive system. (2019) but do not hold true for Oogensis? (2022)
A. It results in the formation of haploid gametes
a. Testis → Epididymis → Vasa efferentia → Rete testis →
Inguinal canal → Urethra B. Differentiation of gamete occurs after the completion of
meiosis
b. Seminiferous tubules → Rete testis → Vasa efferentia
→ Epididymis → Vas deferens → Ejaculatory duct → C. Meiosis occurs continuously in a mitotically dividing
stem cell population
Urethra → Urethral meatus
D. It is controlled by the Luteinising hormone (LH) and
c. Seminiferous tubules → Vasa efferentia → Epididymis →
Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) secreted by the
Inguinal canal → Urethra
anterior pituitary
d. Testis → Epididymis → Vasa efferentia → Vas deferens
E.It is initiated at puberty
→ Ejaculatory duct → Inguinal canal → Urethra →
Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given
Urethral meatus
below.
2. Which of the following depicts the correct pathway of
a. B, C and E only b. C and E only
transport of sperms? (2016 - II)
c. B and C only d. B, D and E only
a. Rete testis → Vas deferens → Efferent ductules →
Epididymis 7. At which stage of life the oogenesis process is initiated?
(2022)
b. Efferent ductules → Rete testis → Vas deferens →
Epididymis a. Adult
c. Rete testis → Efferent ductules → Epididymis → Vas b. Puberty
deferens c. Embryonic development stage
d. Rete testis → Epididymis → Efferent ductules → d. Birth
Vas deferens 8. Given below are two statements: (2022)
3. The shared terminal duct of the reproductive and urinary Statement I: The release of sperms into the seminiferous
system in the human male is: (2015, 14) tubules is called spermiation
a. Urethra b. Ureter Statement II: Spermiogenesis is the process of formation of
c. Vas deferens d. Vasa efferentia sperms from spermatogonia
In the light of the above statements, choose the most
appropriate answer from the options given below.
Female Reproductive System
a. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct
b. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
4. Capacitation occurs in: (2017-Delhi) c. Both statement I and statement II are incorrect
a. Rete testis b. Epididymis d. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
c. Vas deferens d. Female Reproductive tract
9. Meiotic division of the secondary oocyte is completed:
5. Capacitation refers to changes in the: (2015) (2020)
a. Ovum after fertilisation a. At the time of copulation
b. Sperm after fertilisation b. After zygote formation
c. Sperm before fertilisation c. At the time of fusion of a sperm with an ovum
d. Ovum before fertilisation d. Prior to ovulation
Human Reproduction 2
10. Select the correct option of haploid cells from the following 18. Which of the following events is not associated with ovulation
groups: (2020-Covid) in human female? (2015 Re)
a. Secondary spermatocyte, First polar body, Ovum a. Full development of Graafian follicle
b. Spermatogonia, Primary spermatocyte, Spermatid
b. Release of secondary oocyte
c. Primary spermatocyte, Secondary spermatocyte, Second
c. LH surge
polar body
d. Decrease in estradiol
d. Primary oocyte, Secondary oocyte, Spermatid
19. Menstrual flow occurs due to lack of: (2013)
11. Extrusion of second polar body from egg nucleus occurs:
(2019) a. Vasopressin b. Progesterone
a. After entry of sperm but before fertilisation c. FSH d. Oxytocin
b. After fertilisation
c. Before entry of sperm into ovum
Fertilisation and Implantation &
d. Simultaneously with first cleavage
12. The difference between spermiogenesis and spermiation is: Pregnancy and Embryonic Development
(2018)
a. In spermiogenesis spermatids are formed, while in
20. Receptors for sperm binding in mammals are present on:
spermiation spermatozoa are formed.
(2021)
b. In spermiogenesis spermatozoa are formed, while in
a. Vitelline membrane b. Perivitelline space
spermiation spermatids are formed.
c. In spermiogenesis spermatozoa from Sertoli cells are c. Zona pellucida d. Corona radiata
released into the cavity of seminiferous tubules, while in 21. Which of the following secretes the hormone, relaxin during
spermiation spermatozoa are formed.
the later phase of pregnancy? (2021)
d. In spermiogenesis spermatozoa are formed, while in
a. Corpus luteum b. Foetus
spermiation spermatozoa are released from Sertoli cells
c. Uterus d. Graafian follicle
into the cavity of seminiferous tubules.
13. Which of the following cells during gametogenesis is 22. In human beings, at the end of 12 weeks (first trimester) of
normally diploid? (2015) pregnancy, the following is observed: (2020-Covid)
a. Spermatogonia b. Secondary polar body a. Most of the major organ systems are formed
c. Primary polar body d. Spermatid b. The head is covered with fine hair
14. What is the correct sequence of sperm formation? c. Movement of the foetus
(2013) d. Eyelids and eyelashes are formed
a. Spermatogonia, Spermatocyte, Spermatid, Spermatozoa 23. Hormones secreted by the placenta to maintain pregnancy
b. Spermatid, Spermatocyte, Spermatogonia, Spermatozoa are: (2018)
c. Spermatogonia, Spermatocyte, Spermatozoa, Spermatid a. hCG, hPL, progestogens, prolactin
d. Spermatogonia, Spermatozoa, Spermatocyte, Spermatid b. hCG, hPL, estrogens, relaxin, oxytocin
c. hCG, hPL, progestogens, estrogens
Menstrual Cycle d. hCG, progestogens, estrogens, glucocorticoids
24. The amnion of mammalian embryo is derived from (2018)
15. Which of the following hormone levels will cause release of a. Ectoderm and mesoderm
ovum (ovulation) from the graffian follicle? (2020)
b. Endoderm and mesoderm
a. High concentration of Progesterone c. Mesoderm and trophoblast
b. Low concentration of LH d. Ectoderm and endoderm
c. Low concentration of FSH
25. Several hormones like hCG, hPL, estrogen, progesterone are
d. High concentration of Estrogen produced by: (2016 - II)
16. A temporary endocrine gland in the human body is: a. Fallopian tube b. Pituitary
(2017-Delhi)
c. Ovary d. Placenta
a. Pineal gland b. Corpus cardiacum
26. Identify the correct statement on inhibin: (2016 - II)
c. Corpus luteum d. Corpus allatum
a. Inhibits the secretion of LH, FSH and Prolactin
17. Changes in GnRH pulse frequency in females is controlled
b. Is produced by granulose cells in ovary and inhibits the
by circulating levels of: (2016 - I)
secretion of FSH
a. Estrogen and progesterone
c. Is produced by granulose cells in ovary and inhibits the
b. Estrogen and inhibin secretion of LH
c. Progesterone only d. Is produced by nurse cells in testes and inhibits the
d. Progesterone and inhibin secretion of LH
3 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
27. Fertilisation in humans is practically feasible only if: a. High level of hCG stimulates the thickening of
(2016 - I) endometrium
a. The sperms are transported into vagina just after the b. High level of FSH and LH stimulates the thickening of
release of ovum in fallopian tube endometrium
b. The ovum and sperms are transported simultaneously to c. High level of FSH and LH facilitate implantation of the
ampullary - isthmic junction of the fallopian tube embryo
c. The ovum and sperms are transported simultaneously to d. High level of hCG stimulates the synthesis of estrogen
ampullary - isthmic junction of the cervix and progesterone
d. The sperms are transported into cervix within 48 hrs of
release of ovum in uterus Parturition and Lactation
28. In human females, meiosis-II in not complete until
(2015 Re) 31. Which of these is not an important component of initiation
of parturition in humans? (2021)
a. Fertilisation
a. Synthesis of prostaglandins
b. Uterine implantation
b. Release of Oxytocin
c. Birth
c. Release of Prolactin
d. Puberty
d. Increase in estrogen and progesterone ratio
29. Which of the following layers in an antral follicle is acelluar?
32. Which of these is not an important component of initiation
(2015 Re)
of parturition in humans? (2015)
a. Theca interna b. Stroma a. Release of oxytocin
c. Zona pellucida d. Granulosa b. Release of prolactin
30. Select the correct option describing gonadotropin activity in c. Increase in estrogen and progesterone ratio
a normal pregnant female: (2014) d. Synthesis of prostaglandins
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
b c a d c a c c c a a d a a d c a
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32
d b c a a c a d b b a c d c b