R
E
T
P
A
H Biotechnology:
4
C
Principles and Processes
6. Plasmid pBR322 has PstI restriction enzyme site within gene
Principles of Biotechnology
ampR that confers ampicillin resistance, If this enzyme is
used for inserting a gene for β- galactoside production and
the recombinant plasmid is inserted in an E.coli strain
1. The cutting of DNA at specific locations became possible
(2021)
with the discovery of: (2015 Re)
a. The transformed cells will have the ability to resist
a. Probes b. Selectable markers
ampicillin as well as produce β-galactoside.
c. Ligases d. Restriction enzymes
b. It will lead to lysis of host cell.
c. It will be able to produce a novel protein with dual ability.
Tools of Recombinant d. It will not be able to confer ampicillin resistance to host
cell.
DNA Technology
7. A specific recognition sequence identified by endonucleases
to make cuts at specific positions within the DNA is: (2021)
a. Okazaki sequences
2. In the following palindromic base sequences of DNA, which
one can be cut easily by particular restriction enzyme? b. Palindromic Nucleotide sequences
(2022) c. Poly (A) tail sequences
a. 5' G T A T T C 3' ; 3' C A T A A G 5' d. Degenerate primer sequence
b. 5' G A T A C T 3' ; 3' C T A T G A 5' 8. First discovered restriction endonuclease that always cuts
c. 5' G A A T T C 3' ; 3' C T T A A G 5' DNA molecule at a particular point by recognising a specific
d. 5' C T C A G T 3' ; 3' G A G T C A 5' sequence of six base pairs is: (2020-Covid)
3. Which of the following is not a desirable feature of a cloning a. Adensosine deaminase
vector? (2022) b. Thermostable DNA polymerase
a. Presence of two or more recognition sites c. Hind II
b. Presence of origin of replication d. EcoRI
c. Presence of a marker gene
9. Match the organism with its use in biotechnology. (2020)
d. Presence of single restriction enzyme site
1. Bacillus thuringiensis (i) Cloning vector
4. Given below are two statements: (2022)
2. Thermus aquaticus (ii) Construction of first
Statement I: Restriction endonucleases recognise specific rDNA molecule
sequence to cut DNA known as palindromic nucleotide 3. Agrobacterium (iii) DNA polymerase
sequence. tumefaciens
Statement II: Restriction endonucleases cut the DNA strand 4. Salmonella typhimurium (iv) Cry proteins
a little away from the centre of the palindromic site
Select the correct option from the following
In the light of the above statements, choose the most
(1) (2) (3) (4)
appropriate answer from the options given below.
a. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct a. (iv) (iii) (i) (ii)
b. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct b. (iii) (ii) (iv) (i)
c. Both statement I and statement II are incorrect c. (iii) (iv) (i) (ii)
d. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect d. (ii) (iv) (iii) (i)
5. DNA strands on a gel stained with ethidium bromide when 10. The sequence that controls the copy number of the linked
viewed under UV radiation, appear as: (2021) DNA in the vector, is termed: (2020)
a. Bright orange bands b. Dark red bands a. Ori site b. Palindromic sequence
c. Bright blue bands d. Yellow bands c. Recognition site d. Selectable marker
Biotechnology: Principles and Processes 2
11. The specific palindromic sequence which is recognized by 20. Which of the following is not a feature of the plasmids?
EcoRI is: (2020) (2016 - I)
a. 5’ - GGAACC - 3’ b. 5’ - CTTAAG - 3’ a. Independent replication b. Circular structure
3’ - CCTTGG - 5’ 3’ - GAATTC - 5’ c. Transferable d. Single-stranded
c. 5’ - GGATCC - 3’ d. 5’ - GAATTC - 3’
21. The DNA molecule to which the gene of interest is integrated
3’ - CCTAGG - 5’ 3’ - CTTAAG - 5’
for cloning is called: (2015 Re)
12. Identify the wrong statement with regard to restriction
a. Vector b. Template
enzymes. (2020)
c. Carrier d. Transformer
a. They cut the strand of DNA at palindromic sites.
22. The introduction of t-DNA into plants involves: (2015 Re)
b. They are useful in genetic engineering.
c. Sticky ends can be joined by using DNA ligases. a. Altering the pH of the soil, then heat shocking the plants
d. Each restriction enzyme functions by inspecting the b. Exposing the plants to cold for a brief period
length of a DNA sequence.
c. Allowing the plant roots to stand in water
13. Choose the correct pair from the following: (2020) d. Infection of the plant by Agrobacterium tumifaciens
a. Polymerases - Break the DNA into fragments
23. Which vector can clone only a small fragment of DNA?
b. Nucleases - Separate the two strands of DNA (2014)
c. Exonucleases - Make cuts at specific positions
a. Cosmid
within DNA
b. Bacterial artificial chromosome
d. Ligases - Join the two DNA molecules
c. Yeast artificial chromosome
14. Following statements describe the characteristics of the
d. Plasmid
enzyme restriction endonuclease. Identify the incorrect
statement. (2019) 24. DNA fragments generated by the restriction endonuclease in
a. The enzyme cuts DNA molecule at identified position a chemical reaction can be separated by: (2013)
within the DNA. a. Restriction mapping
b. The enzyme binds DNA at specific sites and cuts only one
b. Centrifugation
of the two strands.
c. Polymerase chain reaction
c. The enzyme cuts the sugar-phosphate backbone at specific
d. Electrophoresis
sites on each strand.
d. The enzyme recognizes a specific palindromic nucleotide 25. The colonies of recombinant bacteria appear white in contrast
sequence in the DNA. to blue colonies of non-recombinant bacteria because of:
(2013)
15. A gene whose expression helps to identify transformed cell
is known as (2017-Delhi) a. Inactivation of glycosidase enzyme in recombinant
a. Selectable marker b. Vector bacteria
c. Plasmid d. Structural gene b. Non-recombinant bacteria containing betagalactosidase
16. Restriction endonucleases are: (2017) c. Insertional inactivation of alpha-galactosidase in non-
recombinant bacteria
a. Used in genetic engineering for ligating two DNA
molecules d. Insertional inactivation of beta-galactosidase in
b. Used for in vitro DNA synthesis recombinant bacteria
c. Synthesised by bacteria as part of their defense mechanism
d. Present in mammalian cell for degradation of DNA when
Processes of Recombinant
the cell dies
17. Which of the following restriction enzymes produces blunt DNA Technology
ends? [OS](2016 - II)
a. Xho I b. Hind III
c. Sal I d. Eco RV 26. Which one of the following statement is not true regarding
gel electrophoresis technique? (2022)
18. A foreign DNA and plasmid cut by the same restriction
endonuclease can be joined to form a recombinant plasmid a. Bright orange coloured bands of DNA can be observed in
using: (2016 - II) the gel when exposed to UV light.
a. Polymerase-III b. Ligase b. The process of extraction of separated DNA strands from
c. Eco RI d. Taq polymerase gel is called elution.
19. Which of the following is a restriction endonuclease? c. The separated DNA fragments are stained by using
(2016 - I) ethidium bromide.
a. Hind II b. Protease d. The presence of chromogenic substrate gives blue
c. DNase I d. RNase coloured DNA bands on the gel
3 Chapter & Topicwise NEET PYQ's P
W
27. Given below are two statements: one is labelled as Assertion Select the correct option from following:
(A) and the other is labelled as Reason (R). (2022) (1) (2) (3) (4)
Assertion (A): Polymerase chain reaction is used in DNA
a. (ii) (i) (iv) (iii)
amplification
b. (iv) (iii) (ii) (i)
Reason (R): The ampicillin resistant gene is used as a
c. (ii) (i) (iii) (iv)
selectable marker to check transformation
d. (iii) (ii) (iv) (i)
In the light of the above statements, choose the correct
answer from the options given below. 34. Spooling is: (2020-Covid)
a. (A) is not correct but (R) is correct a. Cutting of separated DNA bands from the agarose gel
b. Transfer of separated DNA fragments to synthetic
b. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct
membranes
explanation of (A)
c. Collection of isolated DNA
c. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is not the correct
d. Amplification of DNA
explanation of (A)
35. Select the correct statement from the following:
d. (A) is correct but (R) is not correct
(2020-Covid)
28. During the purification process for recombinant DNA
a. The polymerase enzyme joins the gene of interest and the
technology, addition of chilled ethanol precipitates out: vector DNA
(2021) b. Restriction enzyme digestions are performed by incubating
a. DNA b. Histones purified DNA molecules with the restriction enzymes of
optimum conditions
c. Polysaccharides d. RNA
c. PCR is used for isolation and separation of gene of interest
29. During the process of gene amplification using PCR, if very
d. Gel electrophoresis is used for amplification of a DNA
high temperature is not maintained in the beginning, then segment
which of the following steps of PCR will be affected first?
36. Which one of the following equipments is essentially
(2021)
required for growing microbes on a large scale, for industrial
a. Extension b. Denaturation production of enzymes? (2019)
c. Ligation d. Annealing a. BOD incubator b. Sludge digester
c. Industrial oven d. Bioreactor
30. In gel electrophoresis, separated DNA fragments can be
visualized with the help of: (2020) 37. DNA precipitation out of a mixture of biomolecules can be
achieved by treatment with (2019)
a. Ethidium bromide in UV radiation
a. Isopropanol
b. Acetorarmine in UV radiation
b. Chilled ethanol
c. Ethidium bromide in infrared radiation
c. Methanol at room temperature
d. Acetocarmine in bright blue light
d. Chilled chloroform
31. In a mixture, DNA fragments are separated by (2020-Covid)
38. The correct order of steps in Polymerase Chain Reaction
a. Restriction digestion (PCR) is: (2018)
b. Electrophoresis a. Extension, Denaturation, Annealing
c. Polymerase chain reaction b. Annealing, Extension, Denaturation
d. Bioprocess engineering c. Denaturation, Extension, Annealing
d. Denaturation, Annealing, Extension
32. In recombinant DNA technology antibiotics are used:
(2020-Covid) 39. What is the criterion for DNA fragments movement on
agarose gel during gel electrophoresis? (2017-Delhi)
a. To detect alien DNA
a. The larger the fragment size, the farther it moves
b. To impart disease-resistance to the host plant
b. The smaller the fragment size, the farther it moves
c. As selectable markers
c. Positively charged fragments move to farther end
d. To keep medium bacteria-free
d. Negatively charged fragments do not move
33. Match the following techniques or instruments with their
40. The process of separation and purification of expressed
usage: (2020-Covid)
protein before marketing is called (2017-Delhi)
1. Bioreactor (i) Separation of DNA fragments
a. Upstream processing b. Downstream processing
2. Electrophoresis (ii) Production of large quantities of c. Bioprocessing d. Post production processing
products
41. The DNA fragments separated on an agarose gel can be
3. PCR (iii) Detection of pathogen, based on visualised after staining with: (2017-Delhi)
antigen-antibody reaction
a. Bromophenol blue b. Acetocarmine
4. ELISA (iv) Amplification of nucleic acids
c. Aniline blue d. Ethidium bromide
Biotechnology: Principles and Processes 4
42. Which of the following is not a component of downstream 45. In vitro clonal propagation in plants is characterised by:
processing? (2016 - II) (2014)
a. Preservation b. Expression a. Microscopy
c. Separation d. Purification b. PCR and RAPD
43. Stirred-tank bioreactors have been designed for: (2016 - II) c. Northern blotting
a. Availability of oxygen throughout the process d. Electrophoresis and HPLC
b. Ensuring anaerobic conditions in the culture vessel
46. Which of the following is not correctly matched for the
c. Purification of product organism and its cell wall degrading enzyme? (2013)
d. Addition of preservatives to the product
a. Fungi - Chitinase
44. The Taq polymerase enzyme is obtained from: (2016 - I) b. Bacteria - Lysozyme
a. Thermus aquaticus b. Thiobacillus ferroxidans c. Plant cells - Cellulase
c. Bacillus subtilis d. Pseudomonas putida d. Algae - Methylase
Answer Key
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
d c a b a d b c a a d c d b a c d
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34
b a d a d d d b d c a b a b c a c
35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46
b d b d b b d b a a b d